---
layout: page
title: No Tech for Apartheid
permalink: /no-tech-for-apartheid/
---

# No Tech for Apartheid

## If you’re here to take action, see [“What can I do?”](#what-can-i-do).

## “I work in tech and I am so sad/angry/scared about the current crisis in Gaza, but no one in tech seems to be talking about it.”

You are not alone—we are also sad, angry, scared, and more. As Palestinian,
Arab, and Muslim tech workers, as anti-Zionist Jewish tech workers, as tech
workers of color, and as allied tech workers, we are also sad, angry, scared,
and more.

As engineers who build innovative technology for social good, we are horrified
by our employers that are generating profit from this genocide. As content
moderators, we are distressed by the atrocities we see from on the ground and
condemn how our employers are censoring Palestinian voices. As recruiters who
look for brilliant talents around the world, we mourn the lives lost due to
this genocide. 

## “Why has tech been silent on this?”

Many tech companies have yet to acknowledge the ongoing humanitarian crisis in
Gaza. If they did make a statement, it was likely one-sided and erased the
apartheid context. 

The tech industry’s silence is louder than words. As recently as last week, Mai
Ubeid, a tech worker at Google, and her entire family were [martyred in an
Israeli
airstrike](https://www.latimes.com/opinion/story/2023-11-07/gaza-palestine-israel-bombing-tech-sector-coders-silicon-valley).

The tech industry has a long history of [violating Palestinian rights through
censorship](https://theintercept.com/2022/09/21/facebook-censorship-palestine-israel-algorithm/).

Workers are being [targeted for speaking amidst their employers’
silence](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2023/10/22/google-amazon-meta-gaza-israel-contracts/),
and their employers are standing by idly or inequitably addressing harassment
and discrimination.

These are not individual instances. Tech is a responsible actor in the current
crisis.

## “What can Tech do?”

As [No Tech For Apartheid](https://www.notechforapartheid.com), workers at
Google and Amazon are taking bold action demanding the cancelation of the
billion dollar contract with the Israeli government and military known as
Project Nimbus. Workers across the tech industry are starting to follow,
organizing to demand their companies cease any defense contracts with the
Israeli state.

Second, companies can stop their censorship of Palestinian solidarity content.

Third, tech companies can protect the welfare of Palestinian, Arab, and Muslim
tech workers, and others speaking in solidarity with the Palestinian cause by
equitably addressing workplace and other harassment and discrimination.

## “What can I do?”

It is so easy to fall into despair and feel hopeless. But if we take action
together, collectively workers have the power to change this situation. 

1. **Join [No Tech For Apartheid](https://www.notechforapartheid.com)by joining
a mass call**: Tuesdays, 8 p.m. ET / 5 p.m. PT, or Thursdays, 5 p.m. ET / 2
p.m.  PT.  Registration links will be posted here asap.

2. **Organize a vigil.** If our leadership refuses to acknowledge how tech
workers are impacted by the current crisis, then we will honor our colleagues
ourselves. A vigil is an opportunity for a group of people to come together to
honor the passing of Mai, our fellow tech workers impacted by the genocide in
Gaza, and our known and loved ones. You can organize an in-person vigil outside
of your office. A toolkit for organizing a vigil will be posted here asap. In
the meantime, pick a date and an entrance to your office.

3. Of course, if you haven’t been doing so already, contact your elected
officials to demand that they endorse an immediate and unconditional ceasefire.
If you vote in the U.S., call your members of Congress to demand that they
endorse an immediate and unconditional ceasefire. 
